TELCODOCS-82 - site planning, networking, DU BIOS, disconnected registry, ACM modules for CNF-1500 (#34387)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ztp-du-host-bios-requirements.adoc

// CNF-1500 ZTP
// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// scalability_and_performance/ztp-zero-touch-provisioning.adoc

[id="configuring_bios_for_du_hosts_{context}"]
= Configuring BIOS for distributed unit bare-metal hosts

Distributed unit (DU) hosts require certain BIOS settings to be configured before the host can be provisioned.

.Procedure

> . Set the *UEFI/BIOS Boot Mode* to `UEFI` and ensure that the same setting is applied in the `BareMetalHost` CRD.

Reviewer: I'd expand CRD. Also, will your user need any other context to start this procedure in the right place?

Author: Really, this task of BIOS config is outside of the scope of this information. The context is that the BIOS must be configured before you install OCP. It's up to the customer to prepare the hosts for the OCP install. This is a bare minimum guidance for what needs to be configured. It's also dependant on the specific hardware.

> . Set *Hard drive first* in the host boot sequence order.

Reviewer: In this case, I suggest putting the context before the step:
```suggestion
. In the host boot sequence order, select *Hard drive first*.
```

+
[NOTE]
====

> If `rootDeviceHints` is specified in the `BareMetalHost` CRD, the hard disk must match the hard disk that you configure in the host boot sequence order.

Reviewer: > the hard disk must match

Is this enough info for the user to match this up? I suggest considering adding a syntax example later.

====

> . Apply the BIOS configurations for your hardware. The following table describes a representative BIOS configuration for an Intel® Xeon Skylake or Intel Cascade Lake server, based on the Intel FlexRAN 4G and 5G baseband PHY reference design.

Reviewer: > Intel®

I don't see other uses of the ® symbol with "Intel" in `master`. Will you confirm that it's required and update the whole PR, if required?

Author: https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/trademarks/intel.html 

If we follow Intel's guidelines, we would only update the first instance with the registered trademark. But I take your point, I do not see it elsewhere in the repo. Will remove and maybe open a discussion on this.

+
[NOTE]
====

> The exact BIOS configuration will depend on your specific hardware and network requirements.

Reviewer: > Use past or future tense only when you cannot use present tense or it does not make sense to use present tense.
```suggestion
The exact BIOS configuration depends on your specific hardware and network requirements.
```

====
+
.Sample BIOS configuration for an Intel Xeon Skylake or Cascade Lake server
[cols=2*, width="90%", options="header"]
|====
|BIOS Setting
|Configuration

|CPU Power and Performance Policy
|Performance

|Uncore Frequency Scaling
|Disabled

|Performance P-limit
|Disabled

|Enhanced Intel SpeedStep (R) Tech
|Enabled

|Intel Configurable TDP
|Enabled

|Configurable TDP Level
|Level 2

|Intel(R) Turbo Boost Technology
|Enabled

|Energey Efficient Turbo
|Disabled

|Hardware P-States
|Disabled

> 

Reviewer: Consider removing this blank line for consistency.

|Package C-State

> |C0/C1 state

Reviewer: As someone with no context, I can't tell if this one needs more explanation.

Author: It doesn't, or at least that is the guidance from QE/SME, the table is a general reference, but the exact config is outside the scope of this for now. 4.9 will have a automated BIOS configuration feature.

|C1E
|Disabled

|Processor C6
|Disabled
|====

[NOTE]
====

> If you are using the Intel vRAN Dedicated Accelerator ACC100 in your DU, enable SR-IOV and VT-d in the BIOS for the host. For more information, see link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.7/scalability_and_performance/cnf-optimize-data-performance-acc100.html#configuring-the-sr-iov-fec-operator-intel-vran-dedicated-accelerator-acc100_cnf-acc100[Configuring the SR-IOV FEC Operator for the Intel® vRAN Dedicated Accelerator ACC100]

Author: OK thanks, I was thinking this was probably not allowed. However, this is a funny one. This particular module is not delivered in master, it's only in enterprise-4.7 for now.

> If you are using the Intel vRAN Dedicated Accelerator ACC100 in your DU, enable SR-IOV and VT-d in the BIOS for the host. For more information, see link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.7/scalability_and_performance/cnf-optimize-data-performance-acc100.html#configuring-the-sr-iov-fec-operator-intel-vran-dedicated-accelerator-acc100_cnf-acc100[Configuring the SR-IOV FEC Operator for the Intel® vRAN Dedicated Accelerator ACC100]

Author: I've removed this.

// CNF-1500 ZTP
// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// scalability_and_performance/ztp-zero-touch-provisioning.adoc

[id="configuring_bios_for_du_hosts_{context}"]
= Configuring BIOS for distributed unit bare-metal hosts

> Distributed unit (DU) hosts require the BIOS to be configured before the host can be provisioned. The BIOS configuration is dependent on the specific hardware that runs your DUs and the particular requirements of your installation.

Reviewer 2: Not sure if this is covered elsewhere.  Automated setting of the BIOS is not included in this release.  It should be listed as a pre-requisite.

Author: Added this as an admonition in this section.

[source,yaml]
----
rootDeviceHints:
  deviceName: /dev/sda
----
====

. Apply the specific BIOS configuration for your hardware. The following table describes a representative BIOS configuration for an Intel Xeon Skylake or Intel Cascade Lake server, based on the Intel FlexRAN 4G and 5G baseband PHY reference design.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
The exact BIOS configuration will depend on your specific hardware and network requirements. The following sample configuration is for illustrative purposes only.
====
+
.Sample BIOS configuration for an Intel Xeon Skylake or Cascade Lake server
[cols=2*, width="90%", options="header"]
|====
|BIOS Setting
|Configuration

|CPU Power and Performance Policy
|Performance

|Uncore Frequency Scaling
|Disabled

|Performance P-limit
|Disabled

|Enhanced Intel SpeedStep (R) Tech
|Enabled

|Intel Configurable TDP
|Enabled

|Configurable TDP Level
|Level 2

|Intel(R) Turbo Boost Technology
|Enabled

|Energey Efficient Turbo
|Disabled

|Hardware P-States
|Disabled

|Package C-State
|C0/C1 state

|C1E
|Disabled

|Processor C6
|Disabled
|====

[NOTE]
====

> If you are using the Intel vRAN Dedicated Accelerator ACC100 in your DU, enable global SR-IOV and VT-d settings in the BIOS for the host.

Reviewer 2: I don't believe this is only for ACC100 - this should be for all hosts.

Author: @juphoff can you comment on this?

> If you are using the Intel vRAN Dedicated Accelerator ACC100 in your DU, enable global SR-IOV and VT-d settings in the BIOS for the host.

Reviewer 3: Getting back to you, our QE team did not enable these settings during their testing. May I ask what the reason to enable these settings are?

Author: @CrystalChun - Interesting. @ijolliffe comments above that these settings should be enabled for all hosts. These settings are purely related to these Accelerator cards. if you are running virtualized DUs in QE, maybe this wasn't possible to emulate?

Reviewer 3: We are not running virtualized DU in QE.
